# SSIIFD
This is a code set for hyperpsectral anomaly detection including the RX, PTA, CRD, iForest, SSIIFD, MFIFD etc.
The set of files contains the Matlab code for AD experiments in the following paper:

[1] Xiangyu Song, Sunil Aryal, KaiMing Ting, Zhen Liu and Bin He, 
Spectral-Spatial Anomaly Detection of Hyperspectral Data Based on Improved Isolation Forest. 
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, doi: 10.1109/TGRS.2021.3104998., Aug. 2021.

Note that: 
(1)the demo_ global _IIFD.m is a basic demo of using the proposed improved isolation forest detector for
anomaly detection in spectral-domain of original HSI data without pre-segmentation or any other preprocessing. 
(2)the demo_ local _IIFD.m is a demo of using IIFD for anomaly detection in spectral-domain with an ERS-based segmentation preprocessing
(3)the demo_SSIIFD.m is a demo of using improved isolation forest-based spectral-spatial anomaly detection framework for anomaly detection 
in both spectral and spatial domains

Since the global IIFD is easy to implement and not many parameters need to be adjusted, we recommend the demo_global_IIFD.m to readers
when detecting anomalies in other HSIs except ones listed in [1]

The KIFD are generated by:

[2] S. Li, K. Zhang, P. Duan, and X. Kang, 
Hyperspectral anomaly detection with kernel isolation forest, 
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 319-329, Jan. 2020.

The MFIFD implimentation is by:

[3] R. Wang, F. Nie, Z. Wang, F. He and X. Li, 
Multiple Features and Isolation Forest-Based Fast Anomaly Detector for Hyperspectral Imagery, 
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 58, no. 9, pp. 6664-6676, Sept. 2020.

the PTA implitation is by:

[4] L. Li, W. Li, Y. Qu, C. Zhao, R. Tao and Q. Du, 
Prior-Based Tensor Approximation for Anomaly Detection in Hyperspectral Imagery, 
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems,  doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2020.3038659.

The CRD are built by:

[5] W. Li and Q. Du, 
Collaborative Representation for Hyperspectral Anomaly Detection,
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 1463-1474, March 2015.

The RXD is implemented by:

[6] I. S. Reed and X. Yu, 
Adaptive multiple-band CFAR detection of an optical pattern with unknown spectral distribution,
IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. 38, no. 10, pp. 1760-1770, Oct. 1990.

The 3DROC implitation is by:

[7] C. -I. Chang, 
An Effective Evaluation Tool for Hyperspectral Target Detection: 3D Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve Analysis,
IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 59, no. 6, pp. 5131-5153, June 2021.


If you use this demo, please cite these references

 --- [1][2][3][4][5][6][7] ---

Any suggestions and comments are appreciated, and please send them to the authors: 

 songxiangyu17@mails.ucas.edu.cn;
 songxiangyu@crdc.com;
 sunil.aryal@deakin.edu.au;
 tingkm@nju.edu.cn;
